CSC425 Deliverable 2: User Research & Problem Definition 
 Student Name: Brooklyn Wells 
 Branch Name: d2-Brook-Wells
 Date Submitted: September 3, 2025

Target User Group:
    Inexperienced Cooks 
 	    The main demographic for this application are inexperienced cooks, so college students, single people, and those in the age 
         range of 18 - 26

Problem Description:
	    All the current food tracking apps use premade foods and just let you know when they are nearing their expiration date, but
         what about food you have personally made, leftovers from a restaurant, or even food you were gifted?  When are those 
         still okay to consume and when should you instead throw them out? Are they even safe to store in the first place?
         This can cause excessive food waste or even lead to people getting seriously ill if they consume something that has been
         stored improperly or for too long. 
    
 Evidence of the Problem:
●	    In an article published this month by Stephanie Brown of VeryWell Health, “The #1 Hidden Danger of Reheating Rice”, 
        rice should not be stored unless you are cooking it to immediately put in the fridge.

●	    FoodSafety.gov’s Cold Food Storage Chart notes that things that can be properly frozen are safe to consume indefinitely;   
        however, the quality of the items will go down considerably over time. 

●	    According to Azanaw, et al. in “Food Safety Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice of College Students, Ethiopia, 2019:  
        A Cross-Sectional Study”, while college students are not the most at risk for food borne illness they are lacking in 
        knowledge of food safety, with the questions that the least people answered correctly (only 19%), being the ones on how to
         properly handle leftovers.

“How Might We” Statement:
	How might we more efficiently and accurately track the spoilage of homemade foods and leftovers for inexperienced cooks,
    so that we can cut down on food wastage and prevent food born illnesses?

User Persona:
    Name: Camden Lazlo
     Age: 21
     Occupation: Fulltime student 
     Location: Murray, Ky
     Goals: Be able to eat without worrying about food being spoiled, stretch meals over several days, have the ability to 
            store leftovers comfortably.
     Frustrations: low to no income so he can’t afford to waste food, brings leftovers home just to toss them in the trash because
            he doesn’t know if it’s safe to put them in the fridge, leaves all food in the fridge for the same amount of time 
            regardless of what the food is.
     Technology Comfort Level: High (uses a smartphone daily, Laptop for sc̶h̶o̶o̶l̶w̶o̶r̶k gaming )

Ethical Lens Applied:
Principle: Safety in food storage
●	Application: This problem can create an unsafe situation for people who don’t know how to properly store food, this can lead
             to sickness, food waste, or shying away from cooking altogether 

●	Stakeholders Impacted: Inexperienced cooks, college students, potluck enjoyers 

●	Professional Standard: Aligns with FoodSafetly.gov’s advice on handling food and how long food items can be kept in cold storage
             (fridge or freezer) before spoiling or degrading in quality.
